You could be forgiven for
thinking that LLMs and
generative AI are
focused on chats tasks.
After all, chatbots are highly
visible and getting
a lot of attention.
Next word prediction is
the base concept behind
a number of different
capabilities,
starting with a basic chatbot.
However, you can use this
conceptually simple technique
for a variety of other tasks
within text generation.
For example, you can ask a model
to write an essay
based on a prompt,
to summarize
conversations where you
provide the dialogue as
part of your prompt and
the model uses this
data along with
its understanding
of natural language
to generate a summary.
You can use models for a
variety of translation tasks
from traditional translation
between two different languages,
such as French and German,
or English and Spanish.
Or to translate natural
language to machine code.
For example, you could
ask a model to write
some Python code that
will return the mean of
every column in a DataFrame
and the model will
generate code that you can
pass to an interpreter.
You can use LLMs to
carry out smaller,
focused tasks like
information retrieval.
In this example, you ask the
model to identify all of
the people and places
identified in a news article.
This is known as
named entity recognition,
a word classification.
The understanding of knowledge
encoded in the model's
parameters allows it
to correctly carry out this task
and return the requested
information to you.
Finally, an area of
active development is
augmenting LLMs by
connecting them to
external data sources
or using them to
invoke external APIs.
You can use this ability to
provide the model with
information it doesn't
know from its pre-training
and to enable
your model to power interactions
with the real-world.
You'll learn much
more about how to do
this in week 3 of the course.
Developers have
discovered that as
the scale of foundation models
grows from hundreds of millions
of parameters to billions,
even hundreds of billions,
the subjective
understanding of language
that a model possesses
also increases.
This language
understanding stored
within the parameters of
the model is what
processes, reasons,
and ultimately solves
the tasks you give it,
but it's also true that
smaller models can be fine
tuned to perform well on
specific focused tasks.
You'll learn more
about how to do
this in week 2 of the course.
The rapid increase in
capability that LLMs
have exhibited in
the past few years is largely
due to the architecture
that powers them.
Let's move on to the next
video to take a closer look.